h2(#changelog). Changelog

h3. 8.0 – 2018-03-26 (jools-r)

* *Note: for Textpattern version 4.7 only.* No longer compatible with earlier versions of Textpattern.
* Write tab area classes and id updates to match Textpattern v4.7's 'Write' panel layout.
* Revised custom field handling to reflect new UI pattern, including migration of previous settings on installation.
* Revised 'Write Tab Customize' panel using txp's in-built UI functions.
* Compatibility with glz_custom_fields v2 (e.g. custom field titles).
* Translatable UI text (see Textpack).
* Error notices now use Txp's own in-built messaging functions.
* Revised help.


h3. 7.5 – 2016-05-22

* Further write tab area classes and id updates for Textpattern v4.6. (jools-r)
* Updated install routine to use Textpattern’s built-in functions (jools-r) for better PHP 7 compatibility.


h3. 7.4 – 2015-12-07

* *Note: for Textpattern version 4.6 only.* No longer compatible with earlier versions of Textpattern.
* Updated write tab area classes and id for Textpattern v4.6 (jools-r).


h3. 7.3 – 2014-06-14

* Updated to address "Sorry, the form could not be submitted" error in 4.6 (by mrdale).
* Update bot_wtc extension panel to use new "hive" admin controls.


h3. 7.1

* Fixed "issue with multi-select and checkboxes":http://forum.textpattern.io/viewtopic.php?pid=245511#p245511 custom fields.
* Fixed deprecated jquery.
* Changed 'sections' field "from varchar to text":http://forum.textpattern.io/viewtopic.php?pid=254132#p254132.
* Removed deprecated language attribute from 'script' tag.
* Updated help.
* Cleaned up code.
